<h1>Lore basics</h1>
<h3>Canis Major</h3>
<p>The Canis Major Dwarf Galaxy is the closest neighbouring galaxy to the Milky Way. It had been colonized by the Alliance shortly before its ruin. That’s why human beings in Canis Major’s borders had escaped other systems’ mournful destiny. Now, humanity mostly dwells here, broken out of Alliance’s chains.</p>
<h3>The Ship</h3>
<p>Cosmic Exploration Vessel “Eris” is a private ship, wielded only by its captain. This old spaceship, which was used to transfer prisoners, had been restructured on Asters Guild’s shipyard. Stuffed with pretty expensive modern equipment, it is perfectly suits to deepspace research missions.</p>
<h3>Technologies</h3>
<p>Technical level varies from area to area, but in general it’s rather low because of Alliance’s politics of researches' crackdown for several ages. And after Alliance has fallen, things got real bad with disappearance of some technologies. For instance, microelectronics is at level of 90s of 21st century. Firearms are much widely used than energy weapons. Cloning technology is available only with mysterious Neo Theology implants — Cruciforms, and no one really knows how does it actually works.
<br>Interstellar travels are provided using bluespace technologies.
<br>Short travels can be carried out by vessel engines, for long travels two-sided gates are used.</p>
<h3>Factions</h3>
<h4>Hansa Trade Union</h4>
<p><strong>Hansa Trade Union (aka HTU) — territorial unity of several trade corporations,</strong> which protect their rules, interests and monopolies. Formed from reshaped Syndicate. Four main corporations control the most crucial and most profitable markets by monopolizing, but leave minor sectors for small business and enterprices. <strong>CEV “Eris” is registered as one of Hansa’s Free Vessels.</strong>
<br> <strong>Diplomacy:</strong> HTU is rather pragmatic in diplomacy, it is ready for trade with everyone, who are not to encroach its rules, integrity and independences.
That’s why Cyberchristians expansion annoy them, and communistic cult of Excelsior must have been eviscerated. But, in general, they do not care about the rest of humanity.
<br> <strong> Artificial Intelligence:</strong> only simple, law-approved models are allowed, but Main Corporations can create much more efficient AI’s.
<br> <strong>Civil rights:</strong> drugs and weapons are allowed literally everywhere, though planets and stations may have restrictions. Drug consumption at work are also been regulated. Slavery is restricted, but civilian can sign a contract with corporation in order to be enslaved by it (which is really not that rare). There is no “universal” passport of Hansa, or citizenship, instead there are many different passports of organizations, planets, stations, that have different types of insurance, protection, rules and duties.
<br><em>HTU literally made from wild capitalism romance: pirates after each asteroid, half-cyborgized corporate elite, which measures people in money, and overcrowded hive cities. That’s a gray fumes, which are filtered by old-fashioned terraforming systems.
That’s the last chance for humanity to save itself.</em></p>
<h4>[HTU] Ironhammer Security</h4>
<p><strong>Private Military Corporation, which performs police functions at HTU’s</strong> vessels, stations and planets. Provides a large amount of services, from criminals hunting to escort of convoys. <strong>About fifty years ago Ironhammer Security was the Military Forces of Syndicate.</strong>
<br><strong>Ironhammer Security has several departments,</strong> which fulfil different tasks. Here are five most important divisions:
<ol>
<li><strong>Expeditionary fleet.</strong> Created on the money of remained planetary states and major corporations. That’s the main military power of Hansa, the protection from an external invade.</li>
<li><strong>Marshals.</strong> These people are bounty hunters. They capture and eliminate targets by the order of their hirer, an organization or a state, outside the hirer’s area of influence. Despite all the Central Command’s efforts, Marshals often conflict with the local Ironhammer forces, because of obvious reasons.</li>
<li><strong>Special Anomalistic Unit (S.A.U.).</strong> This department is responsible for seeking, securing, supressing and destroying anomalistic objects. S.A.U. protects Hansa from the communistic cult called Excelsion, from NeoTheology agents, changelings, and other threats that beyong one’s understanding. A pair of operatives from this division can be among CEV “Eris” crew, hired in order to protect ship from various dangers on derelicts.</li>
<li><strong>Corporate Security.</strong> This division secures property, buildings, space stations and vessels. CEV “Eris” guards are a part of this division.</li>
<li><strong>Turing Police.</strong> They deal with lawless synthetics and cyborgs, or with powerful AIs without license. This department is one of the few that acts under their own rules. These guys are very influential. Their financing comes directly from Hansa, as well as their orders. </li>
</ol>
Equipment that operatives use depends on tasks they complete, and also from places where operatives are located. However, most of their weaponry is kinetical.
<br><em>They are severe and discreet professionals when it comes to business.</em></p>
<h4>[HTU] Frosen Star</h4>
<p>Company that provides huge variety of cheap weapons and ammunition, required among the Galaxy. A lot of their guns are kinetical, however, they also have energy ones. Namings of the weaponry comes from sci-fi of the Old Earth: books, films etc. In their advertisement they make references on Earth archetypes or specific works. The guns are mostly modern, but they also make replicas of 21st century weapons.</p>
<h4>[HTU] Asters Guild</h4>
<p>Asters Guild is the unity of spaceports, trade stations, shipyards and factories. Majestic organization, which target is to control the market of deep space travels and shipments. Only Guild’s members have access to most advanced engines, navigation devices, AIs, and some prothesis for direct connection to a vessel. It’s nearly impossible to become a member of Asters Guild, and people usually get into only by commercial or related connections.
Captain, First Officer and Merchant of CEV “Eris” are Asters. Moreover, Merchant and Cargo are independent part of the ship, which are not directly subordinated to Captain.</p>
<h4>[HTU] Moebius Laboratories</h4>
<p>This company produces medicaments, drugs and prosthesises, provides genetical operations. They also have the most advanced hospitals.
<br>Significant part of their business is rather mysterious, though it is known that they are involved in secret genetical experiments, using people as consumable material. 
<br>Due to all this, and because of some stories of abductions, Moebius Laboratories are rather infamous. In their marketing policy they emphasize, by modern and sterile style, on “new mind horizons” when they sell drugs, on hide potential that prosthesises can provide. Though, compare to their main rival, NeoTheology, they are absolutely lambs.</p>
<h4>NeoTheology</h4>
<p><strong>Nano Trasen</strong> was, perhaps, the most successfull megacorporation in human's history. The key to success was in two things: first, for a long period of time, they were the only company who had an access to the Alliance' worlds, thus being the first ones to claim their technologies. Second — they had a full control of systems with plasma giants, which made them the biggest and the most powerful monopoly company out there. With such power in their hands they grew more and more majestic, just as more dangerous. The more they grew — the more dangerous they were. They even managed to provide researches in arcane spheres of wormholes and bionical AI (using pure and modified brains of humans).
<br>They also created their own weapons, which is being used by Ironhammer, among other organizations.
<br>One of the most important achievments of the Corporation was the establishment the basics of Cyberspace technology, using bluespace for information transfer, creating constructs of pure energy which could perform various tasks, even connect with machines and devices through wormholes.
<br>Years gone by, and NanoTrasen become huge, as a state. Corporation had suffered a period of stagnation…
<br>And then the rebellion happened. Suddenly, almost all the directors were eliminated in a couple of hours, and NT Military Forces were under rebels’ control. The next day <strong>Church Of Cyber-Christianity</strong> statened that corporation was purified, and will be reforged by the hand of Church. Thus, corporation had got a new naming — <strong>NeoTheology.</strong>
<br>The point of Cyber-Christianity is that the Judgement Day is approaching. But God gave them technologes in order to create the civilization of righteous people, giving them the Last Chance.
<br><strong>Cruciform</strong> — a Tau Cross-like implant, which embeds into one’s chest. The Church assures that it keeps one’s soul for cloning. Biological age is always drops to 33-35 years during a cloning process, and those who implanted with Cruciform are age much more slowly. That means, that, in theory, the life of an implanted human being is… everlasting?
<br>In addition to that, The Church has the <strong>Angels technology.</strong> Angels are energetical constructs, which are created in bluespace after one’s death. According to information that we know, so-called Angels are early prototype of cloning technology. If one’s die, his mind transfers to this construct. But this amount of information is not enough to actually perform cloning process. Angels are used like autonomic bots to work in cyberspace, to fix errors and to make repairs, or, for instance, to jam enemy’s communications.
<br>Angels stations are spread across the Galaxy, guaranteing an access to after-death consciousness of the humanity to the Church. That’s rather terrific thing.
<br>Generally speaking, Angels technology, Cruciform and cloning are beyond human comprehension. All attempts of other fractions leaded to nothing when they tried to create something similar.
<br><strong>Diplomacy:</strong> being in a cold war with Hansa, The Church, however, has some kind of partnership with the Trade Union in several fields. The cause of cold war is Church’s expansion inside Hansa. Cruciforms become more and more popular, and the Trade Union thinks that it can be a dangerous factor when it comes to internal integrity, that’s why Hansa has a propagandistic company against Cruciforms — for example, implanted Cyberchristians cannot be on head vacations in the Trade Union’s.
<br><strong>Artificial Intelligence:</strong> restricted everywhere, with only few exeptions.
<br><strong>Civil rights:</strong> religion is crucial for Christians, but the Church cannot control everything yet. There is a huge gap between social layers in hive cities, between righteous civillians and lowlife. In slums, where lawlessness, drugs and guns (illegaly imported from Hansa, by the way), people live from day to day without any hopes and expectations. However, the quantity of righteous plodders is increasing gradually.
<br>When it comes to the Church’s laws, among others holy commandments, Christians can’t have any implants except Cruciform. Cyberchristian’s body will deny other implants, or Cruciform itself, which is much worse.
<br><em>Deus Ex Machina stands out and constantly look upon its flock, read their thoughts, look through their souls. The Inquisition purifies other factions’ influence from NT territory, slum areas are being rebuilded to beautiful gardens, fleet is being refreshed with the latest technology. Worlds are getting clearer and decent, but humans barely understand what is actually happening. Bulky machines activate by litanies and do not reveal their inner secrets, police officers don’t know where do their orders come from, new vessels have minimal crew amount because of miracle machines of the Church. When science comes to the background, people do not ask questions anymore. Reality slips through their fingers.</em></p>
<h4>Excelsior</h4>
<p>It’s hard to definite where do these people come from. But they are not descendants of Canis Major colonists for sure.
Their simple technologies are based on Alliance’s: austere and unwieldy, they are, however, may outdo Hansa’s in some ways.
<br>The ideology of this faction is <strong>radical communism.</strong> Without any private property, they live in simple communes on ships and stations throughout the Space, and implants in their minds are connect them, in order to communicate and coordinate. Their families are neither nuclear nor extended — they have no families at all. Monogamy is restricted and despised.
<br>The core of Excelsior — <strong>Haven,</strong> half-mythical station, the largest hive, commune, which is building ships and doing intellectual researches. Access to Haven is impossible, only few scientists and commune leaders can be got there from an “outer commune”.  People from outer communes mainly excavate resources for Haven’s projects.
<br><strong>Diplomacy:</strong> Excelsior has hostile relationships with other factions. Because of communists’ aggressive expansion, denial of private propery (they dig resources literally everywhere on others’ territory) and their agents (who are to embed on neutral mining station and to convert miners into new Excelsior commune by using implants), they are called Communism Cult.
<br><strong>Artificial Intelligence:</strong> the creation of AI is restricted everywhere exept Haven (it is unknown which kind of AI is there). Ship systems have basic AI.
<br><strong>Civil rights:</strong> commune controls people, Haven controls communes. The one who is against commune is to destroy. If someone will commit a crime against Haven — his commune will be… submitted for responsibility. Austere laws with severe ambience made people of Excelsior ready to protect their lives and their commune any second. Their society is deeply militaristic.
<br><em>The goals of Excelsior are mysterious. In the propaganda of theirs they talk about the creation of an utopia, where everybody are equal and important, which is attract many people. On the other hand, the web of secret communes widens, Haven builds more and more ships. Things like this can’t end well.</em></p>
<h4>Technomancers League</h4>
<p>The colonists who had survived in an anomal space filled with asteroids, became known as <strong>Technomancers.</strong>
<br>Dead asteroids were their colonies, and they built their under-dome cities on depleted planets. An aggressive vacuum enviroment moved their science forward. After one and a half of the century the state of Technomancers became technological utopia. They prolong human life for several centuries, and, generally, had things that humanity can’t create now…
<br>But it could not lasts long. <strong>Bluespace peculiar properties were the double-edged sword:</strong> they disrupted teleportation, protecting Technomancers from an invade from the outside, but also trapping Technomancers in their sector, leaving them little variety. Soon enough, Technomancers started to fight each other for resouses and space for living. This quake cracked the League, and it drowned in anarchy and internecine conflicts. This crisis is lasting now: clan leaders die like flies, territories changes their wielders daily, and any unions are unstable.
<br>Many technologies have been lost or forgotten intentionally. Prejudices and illogical conviсtions fill the science, and the the tendency to create everything with excessive luxury has ruined many originally perfect technologies. But, however, Technomancers technological level is higher than Hansa’s.
<br>The lady calling herself <strong>the Empress</strong> managed to bring together most clans, when one of her’s scientists figuried out how to break the trap of the abnormal bluespace, and when the Gates were created. Now Technomancers League has only one purpouse — to colonize systems in order to no longer fight for resources.
<br><strong>Diplomacy:</strong> it’s rather difficult to be a diplomate in Technomancer League. Despite the fact that the Empress provides sort of stability, chaotic atmosphere among League clan leaders (and their frequent death too) provides diversity. One part of the society can freely declare war against Hansa in the morning, but change their mind in the evening. But because of huge technological potential, which is a bargain, both HTU and NeoTheology keep their patience. The main enemy of the Empress is Excelsior, with whom she and her state fight for a few systems of destroyed Alliance, which are still good for living.
<br><strong>Artificial Intelligence is a crutial thing in League’s culture.</strong> AI can only exist together with a human, and this connection called Covenant. AI without owner is to annihilate, and Technomancer without AI is considered to be a beggar person. Technomancers use their AI to perform a huge variety of purposes.
<br><strong>Civil rights:</strong> depends on clan and differs greatly, but the laws of the Covenant are equal among the state. The justice is performing by many assassins’ guilds, or by clan’s forces.
<br><em>The Empress promised a great and honorable future for the nation. Technomants are awakening. They fill stations and Alliance’s territory. Sooner or later League is going to be  majestic. But by what cost?</em></p>
